dshb(1) -- OS X system monitor
==============================

## SYNOPSIS

`dshb` [`-f` <frequency>]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[`-h`]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[`-v`]<br>

## DESCRIPTION

An OS X system monitor in Swift, inspired by top & htop. Displays live readings
of system CPU & memory usage, machine temperature sensors, fan speeds, battery
information and other miscellaneous system statistics. The ncurses based TUI
(text-based user interface) uses color coating to imply status and is fully
resizable. Stats are updated at one second intervals while still maintaining
low overhead (the observer effect is inescapable in this case sadly).

## OPTIONS

List of supported command line options (flags/switchs):

  * `-f`, `--frequency` <value>:
    Statistic update frequency in seconds. Default is 1.

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Show the help message (list of options) and exit.
  
  * `-v`, `--version`:
    Show dshb version and exit.

## COMMANDS

List of supported interactive commands for use during application runtime:

  * `q`:
    Quit.

## STATS

Statistic sections are defined as _"widgets"_ (hence the name _dashboard_ -
metaphorically akin to OS X's Dashboard). Widgets are composed of related
statistics. Here we look at the various widgets in detail.

  * `Battery`:
     <br>
    Displays information about the state of the battery. If the machine does not
    have a battery, this widget will not appear. The information includes
    _Charge_, _Capacity Degradation_, _Cycles_ and _Time Remaining_.

  * `CPU`:
    Displays CPU usage broken down into _System_, _User_, _Idle_ and _Nice_.

  * `Fan`:
    Displays a list of all the fans the machine has with the current speed
    (RPM - revolutions per minute) of each. All Intel based Macs to this point
    have at least one fan, with the exception of the newly added fanless
    MacBook.

  * `Memory`:
    Displays memory usage broken down into _Free_, _Wired_, _Active_,
    _Inactive_ and _Compressed_.

  * `System`:
    Miscellaneous system stats including _Uptime_, _Processes_ & _Threads_
    (global counts), _Load Average_ (1, 5 and 15 minute intervals) and _Mach
    Factor_ (5, 30 and 60 second intervals).

  * `Temperature`:
    Displays a list of the machine temperature sensors in Celsius. The list
    may not be exhaustive. In addition, the maximum temperature of each
    individual sensor is not known. Thus, a global max of 128 degrees is used.
    Finally, the names of the sensors may not be mapped to the correct hardware
    component. This is all due to the fact that the SMC (System Management
    Controller) has a closed source driver, and thus information about it's
    inner workings is limited.

    If a sensor has a value that is constant and completely disproportionate to
    the rest, then there is a chance that it is faulty. This could be due to bad
    or damaged hardware (liquid on the logic board), or a bug in the SMC driver
    itself. Run the _Apple Hardware Test_ diagnostics suite in such a case to
    confirm. See here for example <https://github.com/beltex/SMCKit/issues/15>

## ENVIRONMENT

Due to Swift, dshb requires OS X 10.9 (Mavericks) and above. This implies an
Intel based 64-bit machine. Of course, ncurses is required as well, but it
should be installed by default as a part of OS X, as base install tools such as
top, rely on it as well.

## REPOSITORY

<https://github.com/beltex/dshb>

All project related matters, including source code, can be found at the GitHub
repository listed above. In particular, the issue tracker, which can be used to
report feedback, feature requests and bugs.

## COPYRIGHT

This project is under the _MIT License_.

## AUTHOR

beltex <https://github.com/beltex>

Working on this always brought a smile to my face. I hope it brings a smile to
yours too. Enjoy :)

## SEE ALSO

top(1), htop(1)
